# Introduction

### Who is this Book For?

This textbook will teach you have to build web applications efficiently.   It
does not assume any programming experience beyond the ability to read Python
code.  If you can read Python then you can learn to write it by studying the
example code in each chapter.

During this course you will learn everything you need to know about the tools and
techniques that are needed to build and deploy a commercial web application.
We will start by installing development tools and creating projects using 
a powerful web framework (Django) and deploying these to a web hosting service.

This book was written and scoped for a college level class in Web Development.
The 14 chapters fit well in a semester and 14 projects apply learning throughout
the course.  By the end of the book you will have enough experience to build
apps commercially using the skills you have gained.


### Learn by Doing


It is impossible to learn programming from a book or lecture. You learn to code
by putting your hands on the keyboard. You must form new neural pathways in
your brain.  These are formed as you use creativity to solve problems. Listening
to a lecture does not do this.

The fastest way to learn coding is to write code, see it fail, and learn how
to fix it.  Every task is difficult at first but you quickly learn.  With each
victory there is new knowledge that is retained for the next time you see a
similar situation.


### Skills

During this course you will learn to build modern web apps.  Most apps share
at least 80% of the code.  Learning the skills required to build an app allows
you to quickly build any application you need.  The business value may change
but the skills remain the same.

There are about 50 skills that are required to build an application.  This 
course teaches those skills.  Knowledge is immediately applied by completing
one project each chapter. Skills are demonstrated to make the learning real.

Each of the 15 chapters introduces three new skills.  The project is based on
learning these skills.  Each time you apply a skill it gets easier.  Practice
will let you apply your knowledge automatically with very little thought.


### College Class vs. Personal Learning

This course requires about 100 hours of concentrated effort.  Investing that
amount of energy will enable you to build apps on your own successfully.  
Additional time is required to get quicker at the skills and get stuck less 
often.  But this course will make you ready to write commercial apps
professionally.

The course is organized around 15 chapters to make it ideal for a college
class that is taught in a 15 week semester.  Each project is scoped to require
and verify the learning as you go.

It is also ideal for personal learning outside the classroom.  Anyone that
invests 100 hours will learn the skills to build a modern web app. This could
be used for On-The-Job training or personal enrichment.


### Learning Progression

The skills learned for one project will carry forward to all the later projects.
This builds automatic responses and reinforces the learning.  By the end of the
course you will have lots of practice at doing the routine tasks that you learned
early on.  These activities will be automatic and will require very little
thinking.

Each project builds on the previous ones.  All 15 projects will work together to
produce a medium sized commercial web application.

App Features:

* Built on latest free development tools
* Hosted on free commercial web hosting server
* Database to store info
* User administration
* Views to present data
* Editing via forms
* CRUD operations for all data models
* Automatic tests
* Styling with Bootstrap
* Reusable data widgets
* Refactoring and design patterns
* Image upload
* Data import/export
* Engineering practices


### Course Website

This textbook is part of a complete online course.  The course website, 
[https://shrinking-world.com/course/bacs350](https://shrinking-world.com/course/bacs350), 
will give readers access to

* 45 video lectures - with demos of all the skills
* source code for all demos 
* slides for interactive lessons
* complete text for this book


### Internet Resources

The internet is full of excellent free resources to help you in specific
situations.  Throughout the course you will see where to go to get addition
learning content.  A complete reference at the end will point you to all of 
the resources in a handy guide that will be quite useful to you.


### Group Learning

I recommend that you team up with someone else to learn this together.  After 
the initial social awkwardness this can be a great boost. Learning goes faster
with a buddy.  It gives you someone to talk about confusing issues and someone
to help you when you get stuck.

In the real world, pair programming is common.  Two people write one chunk of 
code and discuss it as they go.  Bugs get squashed before they make it into the
code and the peer pressure naturally increased the quality and quantity of the
work.


### Have Fun

Learning should be fun.  If it's not then you are doing something wrong. Success
is also a thrill.  Trying something new and growing will give you new confidence.
Knowing that you can produce software gives your ego a boost and may improve
your overall sense of well being.

Once you have the capability you will see many opportunities to apply your skill.
When you have a HAMMER the whole world appears to be a NAIL.


