# Demo 2 - App Platform Deployment

---

This demo code illustrates the concepts from "**Building Web Apps - Chapter 2**".

* Github Source Code - [https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/BACS350/tree/main/02/ProfileApp](https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/BACS350/tree/main/02/ProfileApp)

The following Design Patterns are illustrated by this demo

* [Skill 1 - VS Code & Github](https://shrinking-world.com/course/bacs350/skill/1)
* [Skill 2 - Setup Python Environment](https://shrinking-world.com/course/bacs350/skill/2)
* [Skill 3 - Running a Django Application](https://shrinking-world.com/course/bacs350/skill/3)
* [Skill 4 - Deploy a Static Web Server](https://shrinking-world.com/course/bacs350/skill/4)
* [Skill 5 - Deploy to Development Server](https://shrinking-world.com/course/bacs350/skill/5)
* [Skill 6 - Deploy to Production Server](https://shrinking-world.com/course/bacs350/skill/6)

---

### Step 1 - Get the Demo Code

Use **Skill 4 - Deploy a Static Web Server** to get the static web server
running with code from "02/ProfilePage".

This requires you to register an account with Digital Ocean and use App Platform
to create a static server that displays you page.

This code demo shows the construction of a simple static website.

* Single directory
* Single HTML file "index.html"
* CSS file "style.css"
* Image file "Mark-Seaman.jpg"

To view the web page open the index file by double-clicking to run the 
default browser.

Replace the info with your custom content and commit to Github.  Wait for the
build to complete and test your remote web page.

If anything goes wrong then view the build logs to troubleshoot the issue.


### Files

These files are used to build the static web page.

    ├── Mark-Seaman.jpg
    ├── index.html
    └── style.css

Use a simple static web server whenever you need simple HTML files.  Most
applications require you to implement some sort of business logic in your
server.  If this is the case then you will need to provide a Dynamic Application
Server.


## Step 2 - Profile App - Dynamic Application Server

Use **Skill 5 - Deploy to Development Server** to get the Dynamic Application
Server running with code from "02/ProfileApp".

This code is a simple Django application that shows the same content as the 
Profile Page.  But this app code is more general purpose and is easily extended.

Prep for App Platform with **runtime.txt** and **requirements.txt**

runtime.txt

    python-3.10.4

requirements.txt

    django
    gunicorn
    psycopg2-binary

Replace the info with your custom content and commit to Github.  Wait for the
build to complete and test your remote web page.

If anything goes wrong then view the build logs to troubleshoot the issue.


### Files

These files are used to build the Django application.

    ├── config
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   ├── settings.py
    │   ├── urls.py
    │   └── wsgi.py
    ├── manage.py
    ├── pages
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   ├── templates
    │   │   └── index.html
    │   └── views.py
    └── static
        ├── Mark-Seaman.jpg
        ├── index.html
        └── style.css

You can see that there are far more files required to bring up a simple web 
application. These files provide a powerful platform that will let you build
applications that will easily scale to thousands of users and advanced
functionality.


### Step 3 - Deploy to Production Server

Use **Skill 6 - Deploy to Production Server** to get the production server
running by using an App Spec file.

When you get your deployment running properly, save the App Spec data into
**config/app.yaml** in your code repo.  This will let you edit the file to 
make all changes at once.

Use **config/app.yaml** file to update the server

    envs:
    - key: DEBUG
      scope: RUN_AND_BUILD_TIME
      value: "True"
    - key: DISABLE_COLLECTSTATIC
      scope: RUN_AND_BUILD_TIME
      value: "1"
    name: bacs350-demo
    region: nyc
    services:
    - environment_slug: python
      github:
        branch: main
        deploy_on_push: true
        repo: Mark-Seaman/BACS350
      http_port: 8080
      instance_count: 1
      instance_size_slug: basic-xxs
      name: bacs350-demo-app
      routes:
      - path: /
      run_command: |
        python manage.py migrate --no-input
        gunicorn --worker-tmp-dir /dev/shm config.wsgi
      source_dir: 02/ProfileApp
    static_sites:
    - environment_slug: html
      github:
        branch: main
        deploy_on_push: true
        repo: Mark-Seaman/BACS350
      name: bacs350-demo-static
      routes:
      - path: /static
      source_dir: 02/ProfileApp/static

Edit the **config/app.yaml** file to set up your Github repo



