# Demo 7 - News


## News App

This demo code illustrates the concepts from "**Building Web Apps - Chapter 7**".

This code shows the structure of a Django application that has user accounts. 
Multiple data types are  defined along with the views required to edit the data
records.  This app has been left intentionally simple to make it easy to
understand all of the code.

This app has unique user accounts for authors.  Every data object is tied to a
specific author. Each author is able to log in in order to create news articles
or modify existing ones.

New users can register directly on the website to get a user login.  The Author
records in the database use the built-in data models and views for  the Users.
Any author can read all articles but only the author of an article can modify
the contents.

A custom registration form and login form conform to the style of the
application by extending "theme.html".


## Demonstrated Skills

The following Design Patterns are illustrated by this demo

* [Skill 13 - Models & Database](https://shrinking-world.com/course/bacs350/skill/13)
* [Skill 14 - CRUD Operations](https://shrinking-world.com/course/bacs350/skill/14)
* [Skill 16 - CRUD views](https://shrinking-world.com/course/bacs350/skill/16)
* [Skill 17 - Database Migration](https://shrinking-world.com/course/bacs350/skill/17)
* [Skill 19 - User Registration](https://shrinking-world.com/course/bacs350/skill/19)
* [Skill 20 - User Login](https://shrinking-world.com/course/bacs350/skill/20)
* [Skill 21 - Data Status](https://shrinking-world.com/course/bacs350/skill/21)


## Source Code

The code repository for this demo code is at

    https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/BACS350

[Demo Source Code](https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/BACS350/tree/main/07)


## Build the Demo Code

Steps to recreate this demo

* Create the project
* Create the app
* Create the data and views
* Create the tests
* Deploy and test


### Step 1 - Build Project

Create the project

config/settings.py

Configure the settings 

* ALLOWED_HOSTS
* INSTALLED_APPS
* TEMPLATES
* STATICFILES_DIRS


Create the app

Create the data and views

Create the tests


### Step 2 - Build Data

Define an author data model that uses the built-in type for User.

models.py

    from django.contrib.auth.models import User
    from django.db import models

    class Author(models.Model):

        user = models.OneToOneField(User, on_delete=models.CASCADE, editable=False)
        bio = models.TextField()


### Step 3 - Build Registration

templates/registration/signup.html

    <form method="post">
        {% csrf_token %}

        {{ form }}

        <button type="submit">Sign Up</button>
    </form>


views.py

    from django.contrib.auth.forms import UserCreationForm

    class UserAddView(CreateView):
        form_class = UserCreationForm
        success_url = reverse_lazy('login')
        template_name = 'registration/signup.html'

This code is all that is required to get a new Django "User" record that will
let the users login.
When creating an Author record set the "author" field to match the logged in
user.  For each User record that is created the application will automatically
create the corresponding Author record.


### Step 4 - Build Login View

templates/registration/login.html

    <form method="post">
        {% csrf_token %}

        {{ form }}

        <button type="submit">Log In</button>
    </form>

After login go the default URL '/'.  This will either show the user settings
or display the list of articles available to read.  The login status determines
the page to redirect to.

views.py

    from django.contrib.auth.models import User
    from django.contrib.auth.mixins import LoginRequiredMixin

    class UserHomeView(RedirectView):
        def get_redirect_url(self, *args, **kwargs):
            if self.request.user.is_anonymous:
                return '/article/'
            return f'/author/{get_me(self.request.user).pk}'

    def get_me(user):
        return Author.objects.get_or_create(user=user)[0]


### Step 5 - Build User Edit View

After registration the user may need to change the User settings or the Author
settings.  There are two different views that support this.  Note the two
different data models that are edited.

views.py

    from django.contrib.auth.models import User
    from django.contrib.auth.mixins import LoginRequiredMixin

    class UserUpdateView(LoginRequiredMixin, UpdateView):
        template_name = "account_edit.html"
        model = User
        fields = ['first_name', 'last_name', 'username', 'email']
        success_url = reverse_lazy('home')

    class AuthorDetailView(DetailView):
        template_name = 'author_detail.html'
        model = Author



### Step 6 - Build URLs

These URLs support the registration, login, and editing the user and author
settings.  They also support the automatic association of each Author with 
the login credentials.  The author records can be made available to other
users as a list or individual details.

urls.py

    urlpatterns = [

        # Default
        path('',                    AuthorHomeView.as_view(), name='home'),

        # Author
        path('author/',             AuthorListView.as_view()),
        path('author/home',         AuthorHomeView.as_view()),
        path('author/<int:pk>',     AuthorDetailView.as_view()),
        path('author/<int:pk>/',    AuthorUpdateView.as_view()),

        # Accounts
        path('accounts/',           include('django.contrib.auth.urls')),
        path('accounts/<int:pk>/',  UserUpdateView.as_view()),
        path('accounts/signup/',    UserAddView.as_view(), name='signup'),

     ]


### Step 4 - Build Tests

data tests

view tests


### Step 5 - Deploy & Test

Deploy

Test


---
---

## Run the local server

    $ python manage.py migrate
    $ python manage.py createsuperuser
    $ python manage.py runserver

Browse to web page

    http://localhost:8000

Set up static server that is used locally



### Digital Ocean Setup

Prep for App Platform

runtime.txt

    python-3.10.4

requirements.txt

    Django
    gunicorn
    psycopg2-binary

Deploy with config/app.yaml

