# Demo 9 - Views Workshop

## Overview

This demo will illustrate how to build complex views.
It showcases a number of different design patterns that will be quite useful
in building your applications.


## Source Code

The code repository for this demo code is at

    https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/BACS350

[Demo Source Code](https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/BACS350/tree/main/09)


## Design Patterns

Each of these design patterns can be used to easily address specific situations
that commonly occur.  The simple view patterns are at the core of most pages
you need to build.  Occasionally the complex view patterns solve unique 
problems quickly and minimize the thinking required.


### Simple Views

Simple views provide one level of abstraction.  They wrap some HTML code in
a wrapper that adds some attributes to the page.  These simple views could be
added directly using a small amount of HTML code.  The benefit of using a
design pattern is that the resulting code is more readable and duplication 
is eliminated.

* Page View
* Card View
* Document View
* Table View
* Html View


### Complex Views

Complex views are built by putting together many simple view constructs. 
When complete these pages may contain over 1000 lines of HTML code.  It is 
very important to create pages using these design patterns. Complex pages that
are built from raw HTML and JavaScript are all but unreadable.

* Accordion View
* Carousel View
* Tabs View
* Super View


### Page View

A theme page offers the complete implementation of style and content structure
for an entire website.   Major changes can be made to the look-and-feel of the
whole application by modifying this one file.

Consider using partial templates to make the code more readable. This theme 
has separate templates for:

* navbar
* header
* footer

It also uses blocks to override the general behavior with more specific details.

* {% block title %}
* {% block navbar %}
* {% block header %}
* {% block content %}
* {% block footer %}


Each page extends this template and defines its own version of the data content.


templates/theme.html

    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html lang="en">

    <head>
        <meta charset="UTF-8">
        <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">

        <title>{% block title %}NO TITLE{% endblock title %}</title>

        <link href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.1.1/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css" rel="stylesheet">
        <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.1.1/dist/js/bootstrap.bundle.min.js"></script>
        <link href="/static/style.css" rel="stylesheet">
    </head>

    <body>

        {% block navbar %}
        {% include '_navbar.html' %}
        {% endblock navbar %}


        {% block header %}
        {% include '_header.html' %}
        {% endblock header %}


        {% block content %}
        {% endblock content %}


        {% block footer %}
        {% include '_footer.html' %}
        {% endblock footer %}

    </body>

    </html>

templates/page.html

    {% extends 'theme.html' %}

    {% block title %}Page Title{% endblock title %}

    {% block content %}
    <div class="container-fluid p-5 m-5">
        ...
    </div>
    {% endblock content %}



### Card View

views.py

    class CardView(TemplateView):
        template_name = 'card.html'

        def get_context_data(self, **kwargs):
            title = "Gettysburg"
            body = 'Four score and seven years ago ...'
            return dict(title=title, body=body, color='bg-primary', width='col')


templates/card.html

    <div class="{{ width }}">
        <div class="card">
            <div class="card-header {{ color }}">
                <h2>{{ title }}</h2>
            </div>
            <div class="card-body text-dark p-5">
                {{ body }}
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>



### Document View

views.py

    class DocumentView(TemplateView):
        template_name = 'document.html'

        def get_context_data(self, **kwargs):
            document = self.kwargs.get('doc')
            return dict(documents=[document_card(document)])


templates/document.html

    {% extends 'theme.html' %}

    {% block title %}Page Title{% endblock title %}


    {% block content %}
    <div class="container-fluid p-5 m-5">

        <div class="row">

            {% include '_documents.html' %}

        </div>

    </div>
    {% endblock content %}


urls.py

    urlpatterns = [

        path('doc/<str:doc>', DocumentView.as_view()),
    ]


### Table View

views.py

templates

urls.py


### Html View

views.py

templates

urls.py


### 

views.py

templates

urls.py






