# Demo 11 - Book Builder


## Book Builder App

This demo code illustrates the concepts from "**Building Web Apps - Chapter 11**".

This simple app lets authors construct a book.  Each book is owned by a single
author.  When the author logs in they see their books.  They are able to create
an modify books through the user interface.

The author can publish the book making available to everyone.  Each book is
composed of chapters.  A table of contents is automatically generated to let
the user navigate between chapters.  The website displays each chapter as a 
separate page.


## User Stories

1 - Users can register for a new account

2 - Author can see their books

3 - Author can add and modify book

4 - Author can mark book as published

5 - Author can change profile


## Demonstrated Skills

* User registration
* Cascading Data Design Pattern (User, Author, Book, Chapter)
* Many-to-One relationships
* Five Data Views Design Pattern
* Templates organized by data type


## Source Code

The code repository for this demo code is at

    https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/BACS350

[Demo Source Code](https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/BACS350/tree/main/11)


## Build the Demo Code

Steps to recreate this demo

* Create the project
* Create the app
* Create the data and views
* Create the tests
* Deploy and test


### Step 1 - Build Project

Create the project

config/settings.py

Configure the settings 

* ALLOWED_HOSTS
* INSTALLED_APPS
* TEMPLATES
* STATICFILES_DIRS


Create the app

Create the data and views

Create the tests


### Step 2 - Build Data

models.py


### Step 3 - Build Views

views.py

templates/abc.html

urls.py


### Step 4 - Build Tests

data tests

view tests


### Step 5 - Deploy & Test

Deploy

Test

