# Demo 13 - Code Builder

## Code Build App

This demo code illustrates the concepts from "**Building Web Apps - Chapter 13**".

This app is capable of creating code that can be run as a Django application.
A custom Django command is used to run a code generator.  The result is a
running program that is created automatically.  While this app does not have 
all of the specific business logic is does contain much of the common code
that is needed.

Code Generator

* New Project - runs "django-admin"
* New App - runs "startproject"
* New Data Type - copy protoype code for Templates, Views, Tests, URLs


## User Stories

* Application can generate starting code
* Debug the created app and improve the code templates


## Demonstrated Skills

* Code Generator Design Pattern
* Five Views Design Pattern
* Prototypes for Templates and View and URLs
* Prototypes for Test of Views and Data


## Source Code

The code repository for this demo code is at

    https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/BACS350

[Demo Source Code](https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/BACS350/tree/main/13)


## Build the Demo Code

Steps to recreate this demo

* Create the project
    * django-admin startproject
    * startapp
* Create the project prototypes
    * settings.py
    * urls.py
* Create the data prototypes
    * Data Models
    * Views
    * Templates
    * URLs
    * Tests
* Debug process


## Using Code Builder App

To illustrate the use of the app we will rebuild Demo 12 from scratch.

Start by building the script to generate the project.  This script runs as a 
custom management command from inside Django.  

coder/management/commands/buildcode.py

    from django.core.management.base import BaseCommand

    from coder.coder import build_code


    class Command(BaseCommand):

        def handle(self, *args, **options):
            build_code()

This code calls the code generator to create the application files.
The generator contains all of the specific details about how to create the
project, apps, and data model logic.


To execute this generator the custom command is run from the terminal window.

    $ python manage.py buildcode

A function is run that actually creates the project, apps and data types for 
the desired application.


## Create the Project Script

coder/coder.py

    def generate_course_builder():
        project_path = Path('/Users/seaman/Github/BACS350/12')
        project_name = 'CourseBuilder'
        project_app = 'course'
        project_path = create_new_project(project_path, project_name)
        generate_data_type(project_path, project_app, 'Lesson', "lesson")
        system(f'tree {project_path}')

Running this command creates an entire collection of files.

    .
    ├── config
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   ├── app.yaml
    │   ├── asgi.py
    │   ├── settings.py
    │   ├── urls.py
    │   └── wsgi.py
    ├── manage.py
    ├── requirements.txt
    ├── runtime.txt
    ├── static
    │   └── index.html
    └── templates
        ├── _edit.html
        ├── _navbar.html
        ├── index.html
        └── theme.html


These files are edited versions of the prototypes held within the Code Builder
application.  Common application trade-offs are made for reasonable choices for
setting up a general purpose application.

Application settings drive the customized code that is created.

    Project: CourseBuilder

    App: course

    Data Models:  Class - Lesson,  Object - lesson
                  Class - Course,  Object - course

With this small amount of guidance a reasonable start of the app is created.
The business rules can be added to this code to create a fully formed application
quickly.


## Prototype Files

The code generator is built by customizing a collection of prototype files.

The files that are customized to use the correct names for 

* Project Path
* Object Class Name
* Object Instance Name

Each of the files in the prototypes directory is scanned and converted by using
simple text substitution of the key variables.

    prototype
    ├── project
    │   ├── config
    │   │   ├── app.yaml
    │   │   ├── settings.py
    │   │   └── urls.py
    │   ├── requirements.txt
    │   ├── runtime.txt
    │   ├── static
    │   │   └── index.html
    │   └── templates
    │       ├── _edit.html
    │       ├── _navbar.html
    │       ├── index.html
    │       └── theme.html
    ├── templates
    │   └── object_instance
    │       ├── _object_instance.html
    │       ├── _object_instances.html
    │       ├── add.html
    │       ├── delete.html
    │       ├── detail.html
    │       ├── edit.html
    │       └── list.html
    ├── models_object_instance.py
    ├── tests_object_instance.py
    ├── urls_object_instance.py
    └── views_object_instance.py

At the project level the files that are needed by Digital Ocean are automatically
created.

* runtime.txt
* requirements.txt
* static/index.html
* app.yaml

Templates, models, views, tests, and URLs are also created with distinct names
that tell there function.

The actual files desired should be created from selecting the code within these
files to make.

* url.py
* views.py
* tests.py
* models.py

Edit this code to match the business needs of the app you are creating.


## Test and Fix

During the debug and enhancement of the Course Builder code new things will
be discovered and bugs corrected.  These changes should be built into the 
code generator so that each time you run it is better than before.


